>> Brian Holt: Now let's talk about the LM
the database use case that I was talking
about where let's say I
have a SQL database, right?
And I want to save the data between runs.
You could use a bind mount and you could
like save that locally to your desktop.
That would be fine.
It's not the way probably I would
choose to do it, but it would work.
But let's say you want to save it and you
want to have the ability to do backups on
it and then you want to be able to ship
it off to production working as is.
That is what a volume is for.
It's basically for state that's
meant to survive between runs, and
that can be shared across all of your
Docker containers that are running.
>> Brian Holt: So,
let's just go ahead and create one here.
So I'm just gonna do this
directly from my command line.
I'm gonna pull up my notes here.
Let's shut that down.
I'm gonna make mkdir here,
we're gonna call this docker-volume.
We're gonna write a little note
application to kinda demonstrate what you
can do with this, okay?
I'm gonna make two files here,
index.js and Dockerfile.
Surprise surprise, okay?
I'm gonna open this in code,
>> Brian Holt: And
testing to make this a bit bigger.
There we go.
I'm just gonna go copy and
paste all of this.
I don't really care if you
know the node code or not.
The long story short on
what this node code does.
It's going to take in
a path called data txt and
then from there it's going
to read the file, and
then it's going to write back to the file
of whatever the number is plus one, right?
So if the number inside
of data.txt is three,
it'll write back to data.txt four,
so on and so forth forever.
So If it doesn't find the file,
then it's going to create it with zero.
That's it.
>> Speaker 2: Your number
casting with the plus data.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, right there.
Yeah, cuz I'm lazy and
I didn't wanna do anything more special,
that's what that unary plus operator is.
That's what you would call that.
So, I mean,
we can run this locally, right?
If I say node index.js.
And then now I say, you can see
that there's a data.txt file there.
And I say, cat data.txt, it's one.
Do it again, again, again, again.
And if I do that, you can see it is 4.
And if you wonder what that percent
sign is, it means that I'm not adding
a Linux file ending to my file and
it's upset about that.
But as you can see, I'm not
particularly upset about it myself.
If I run this as if I've packaged
this up as a container and
I run it once, what's gonna happen?
It's going to detect that there was
no file there, it's gonna write it.
And then when I stopped
the container is gone, right?
Because that would be a femoral state
that exists inside of the container and
then once it was done,
it'd be gone forever.
Let's say it's mission critical that
I keep this data.txt file alive and
then I wanna have it survive between runs.
This is what a volume can do for you.
So let's just go ahead and delete data
file, cuz we don't wanna keep that.
Move to trash, okay?
And for our Dockerfile,
we're gonna say from,
and let's do node:20-alpine,
or whatever you wanna do.
And then we're gonna say copy, chown and
we're gonna do node:node.into
the source directory.
>> Brian Holt: We're gonna say work,
WORKDIR / src, and we're gonna say CMD.
>> Brian Holt: I mean, at this point I'm
just letting Copilot write my Docker
files for me.
Okay, so you can see here from node,
we're gonna copy into our node directory.
We have a work directory
source node index.js.
I'm not trying to make
this the best Dockerfile.
I'm actually just trying to make
this the minimal Dockerfile.
All right, so let's go and observe the
problem that I was just describing to you.
We're gonna build this.
I'm in docker-volume here.
I'm gonna say docker build- t.
We're gonna call it incrementor
because I am not creative.
And yeah.
Yeah, it's getting mad
that we have ckview,
cuz I think it's from the alpine file.
It doesn't matter.
So I'm gonna say docker
run --rm incrementor.
>> Brian Holt: So and if we just keep
running this over and over and over and
over again, right?
It runs to the file,
it creates the file and then it exits and
then the container goes away.
Great.
Probably what you expect so far.
So how do we do this?
How do we?
Well, you probably say Brian you've
been talking about volumes for
10 minutes now it's volumes.
Don't ask me stupid rhetorical questions.
[LAUGH] I get cranky when I've been
teaching too long towards myself.
Anyway, docker run --rm ---env.
We have to give it that data
path if you remember here.
It's looking for this data path.
That's gonna be passed
into the code DATA-PATH =,
I wanna put /data/num.txt.
You can call whatever you want, obviously.
--mount, right?
Then we're gonna say, type equals volume.
And then we're gonna say source equals,
and then just have to give it a name
doesn't really matter where it is.
We're gonna call it as you
might imagine incrementor-data.
And we're gonna say where do we want
you to mount this volume inside of our
container?
So we're gonna say target equals this,
right?
As long as the data path here
matches whatever the target is,
you are good to go.
So we're gonna say /data, and
then we're gonna run incrementor.
>> Brian Holt: So the first time, it's
doing this cuz I've been running this,
right?
Cuz I've been teaching this class but
let's just remove it.
Wow there's a lot in here.
Increment data, docker volume,
rm incrementor-data.
Okay, now if I do that, file found,
writing zero to a new file.
And now the big reveal moment that I
definitely didn't spoil 30 seconds ago.
It's there now, and
it'll keep working and running.
>> Brian Holt: Because that volume is
going to survive between runs, right?
So like I said, you could write,
like, a SQlite file here,
right if you're just
doing something that and
you want your database to survive
between runs, which is pretty cool.
The nice thing about Docker volume
is there's a bunch of stuff you
can do for it.
It's really, really easy to just dump
out your volumes and back them up.
You can seed them with data and then we're
only doing this with one app right now,
but you can imagine if we had let's say
four different apps all reading from
the same SQLite database, they could all
read and write to the same volume, right?
So that sharing of data amongst
your Docker cluster becomes quite
simple at that point.